# â—‰ Open Ordinals

## About 

The Open Ordinals Institute is a 501(c)(3) public charity dedicated to nurturing
and upholding a thriving ecosystem for the free and open-source development of
the Bitcoin Ordinals protocol. We are staunch believers in the essential role of
free and open-source software for the future of the internet and the world.

The Open Ordinals Institute is committed to supporting developers involved in
this protocol, as well as those creating user-friendly tools that facilitate
less technically proficient users to create Bitcoin Digital Artifacts. In
addition to developers, we aim to fund designers, reviewers, researchers,
educators, and others who contribute to the enhancement and promotion of this
novel technology.

There are numerous ways you can assist in achieving this mission. You can:

- [Donate](#donate) to the Open Ordinals Institute
- [Contribute](https://github.com/ordinals/ord) to the Ordinals protocol
- [Spread](https://twitter.com/ordinalsorg) the word about the Open Ordinals
initiative

Every little support counts. We appreciate your commitment to our cause. Thank
you!


## Donate

Ordinals is open-source and community funded. The current lead maintainer of
[`ord`](https://github.com/ordinals.ord) is
[raphjaph](https://twitter.com/raphjaph). Raph's work on `ord` is entirely
funded by donations. If you can, please consider donating! To make a BITCOIN (no
inscriptions etc.) donation, send to:

bc1qguzk63exy7h5uygg8m2tcenca094a8t464jfyvrmr0s6wkt74wls3zr5m3

Please only donate Bitcoin (no inscriptions etc.) to this address, and
consolidate small donations of less than 10,000 sats before donating, as small
UTXOs are uneconomical to spend from our multisig. To make an INSCRIPTION
donation (not BTC), send to:

bc1qdr06k926axngldcpz48fe7vg72085muzxcsfzgp3eajnptnjlk5s5yz38y

For RUNES you can make a donation here:

bc1qqnvs04uxjrvjjkh4ahzpkqlkggj29ptkjas3navgawzagtjvvg8s8dcpnr

All addresses are in a 2-of-4 multisig wallet with keys held by
[raphjaph](https://twitter.com/raphjaph),
[erin](https://twitter.com/realizingerin),
[rodarmor](https://twitter.com/rodarmor), and
[ordinally](https://twitter.com/veryordinally).

Donations received will go towards funding maintenance and development of ord,
as well as hosting costs for [ordinals.com](https://ordinals.com) and
[ordinals.org](https://ordinals.org). Donations will be tax-deductible to US
taxpayers upon approval by the US Internal Revenue Service of the Open Ordinals
Form 1023, which we expect to occur in 2023.

Thank you for donating!
